if you've been watching my videos for a
while you might have noticed that I'm
not always the most comfortable person
in front of the camera especially in my
earlier videos from way back a few weeks
or months ago you might have noticed
that I squirm around a lot in my seat or
that I don't really look at the camera
when I'm speaking or you might notice me
doing a lot of things with my hands
mostly I think my biggest problem is not
speaking to the camera and looking
around and looking at other things or
just stammering or having trouble
getting the words out of my mouth this
isn't really because I'm nervous I'm a
little bit nervous talking to the camera
but that's not the main issue I think
the main issue is that when I look at
the camera on my imac what I see is a
black strip across the top of the screen
with the dead little camera eye staring
back at me and when I look at it to talk
to it they're my mind just goes blank
it's like my mind and my brain just
stops processing so you might have
noticed actually somebody that follows
me on Google+ noticed that over the last
the last few videos I made some
improvements in being able to talk to
the camera and she asked me she sent me
a message and asked me what I did to you
know make the improvements that I have
now I'm no expert there's still a lot of
people that I know that are way more
better at it than I am and I've got a
long way to go but in addition in
addition to just practicing I came up
with a little tip that has helped
somewhat it's made it easier for me to
be able to talk to the camera without
stammering and looking all around and
looking as nervous so I want to show you
my little friend that helps me if you
see here I have taped the face of a
generic female right over my camera so
that the camera can look right through
and the little light sensor has a spot
to get through and when I talk to the
camera what I'm doing is talking to that
face instead of now I've removed it and
I'm going to start to freeze up
I talked to that face instead of that
dead I of the camera staring back at me
with it like a dead zombie I and it
makes it a little easier for me to talk
to now over time as I've practiced more
and more and I do practice just talking
to an empty camera without it or I do
practice without even recording and just
talk to the camera but between that
practice and having just this little
face i got this face from makeup
anarchist calm it's a makeup website and
they use these printouts to practice
their makeup on but you can put any face
up there I didn't want a real human face
because I wanted something more generic
I didn't want to feel like I was talking
to a real person but you could probably
use really real human face that's helped
me a lot so between that and the
practice and just talking I think I've
made some improvements according to the
at least one person that follows me on
Google+ she thinks I've made some
improvements so if you have trouble
speaking to the camera in addition to
practice get a friend